The script will be a Python script that the customer runs in Azure Cloud Shell

Each step of the script will be run in sequence and have a corresponding rollback action. In case of an error in a step, the step’s rollback will be executed, followed by the rollback actions for each preceding step.

The script should be idempotent in case a previous run of the script failed and was not rolled back properly. The script should check if a resource has already been created before attempting to create one.

Phase 1: Set Up
Use Azure Resource Graph (ARG) to discover all control plane resource groups in all subscriptions
Run the remaining steps for each LFO installation
Find the Deployer’s Container App Job and Container App Environment

Phase 2: Creating Container App Jobs
In the Container App Environment, create 3 paused Container App Jobs (see Appendix on creating paused container app jobs). They should have env variables copied from old functions and have a system-assigned managed identity. 

Phase 3: Creating Role Assignments
For each monitored subscription (get from MONITORED_SUBSCRIPTIONS env var on Resources Task) assign the following roles to the Job’s managed identity:
Diagnostic Settings Job: Assign Reader and Data Access role for forwarder resource group and Monitoring Contributor for subscription
Scaling Task Job: Assign Contributor role for forwarder resource group
Resources Task Job: Assign Monitoring Reader for subscription
Assign Container App Job Contributor to Deployer for control plane resource group
Replacement for Website Contributor in v1 architecture

Phase 4: Enablement
Pause the deployer. We can use the Container App Job Stop API.
Pause the 3 old functions with the Function App stop API
Manually trigger the 3 Jobs and wait for success. On failure, log and rollback
If there are any customers whose control plane tasks are currently failing due to unknown bugs or issues, this will abort the update. The customer would likely submit a support ticket which would allow us to identify and fix these issues.
Unpause the 3 new Jobs
Update the deployer job image to the new image that supports container app jobs
Unpause the deployer

Phase 5: Clean up

In this phase, any errors will not trigger a rollback. Instead, errors will be shown to the customers to manually clean up the remaining resources.

Delete the 3 functions, function plan, and storage File Shares
Delete deployer’s Website Contributor role assignment
